TOOLS DESCRIPTION.

All data plane (ie. IPv4/IPv6 traffic) daemons can print statistics to stdout,
keep them in memory tables, store persistently to open-source RDBMS (MySQL,
PostgreSQL, Sqlite 3) or to noSQL databates (ie. BerkeleyDB) and to flat-files,
and publish to AMQP and Kafka brokers (typically to insert in ElasticSearch,
InfluxDB and Cassandra and, in general, all backends which are not natively
supported by pmacct). BGP, BMP and Streaming Telemetry daemons can publish
control and infrastructure planes to AMQP and Kafka brokers. 

pmacctd		libpcap-based accounting daemon: it captures packets from an
		interface it is bound to. Other than acting as a collector,
		this daemon can also export statistics via NetFlow, IPFIX and
		sFlow protocols. 
nfacctd		NetFlow accounting daemon: it listens for NetFlow packets
		v1/v5/v7/v8/v9 and IPFIX on one or more interfaces (IPv4 and
		IPv6). Other than acting as a collector, this daemon can also
		replicate to 3rd party collectors.
sfacctd         sFlow accounting daemon; it listens for sFlow packets v2, v4
		and v5 on one or more interfaces (both IPv4 and IPv6). Other
		than acting as a collector, this daemon can also replicate to
		3rd party collectors.
uacctd		Linux Netlink NFLOG accounting daemon; it captures packets by
		leveraging a NFLOG multicast group - and works only on Linux.
		Other than acting as a collector, this daemon can also export
		statistics via NetFlow, IPFIX and sFlow protocols.
pmtelemetryd	Standalone Streaming Telemetry collector daemon; listens for
		telemetry data binding to a TCP or UDP port and logs real-time
		and/or dumps at regular time-intervals to configured backends.
pmbgpd		Standalone BGP collector daemon; acts as a passive iBGP or
		eBGP neighbor and maintains per-peer RIBs; can log real-time
		and/or dump at regular time-intervals BGP data to configured
		backends.
pmbmpd          Standalone BMP collector daemon; can log real-time and/or dump
		at regular time-intervals BMP/BGP data to configured backends.
pmacct  	commandline pmacct client; it allows to retrieve data from a
		memory table plugin; it can perform queries over data or do
		bulk data retrieval. Output is formatted, CSV or JSON format.
		suitable for data injection in 3rd party tools like RRDtool,
		Gnuplot or SNMP server among the others.
